Blockchain:
            Blockchain is constantly growing ledger,its keep permanant records of all the transactions in secure.
	    leger - it contains a transaction details,
	    Permanant - Once the transaction details inside the blockchain to put up it permanantly in the ledger,
	    secure-Because it is used advanced crypotography to make sure that the information locked minto the blockchain.
And all transaction is store into the blockchain so the ledger cannot changed.
            blockchain is a chain of block ,each block contain record of transaction details,the block is once completed it will go to the permanant in blockchain DB.
then each block is completed the new block is genarated in automatically.

Advantages of Blockchain:
            Time reduction-quick setlement.
            Security- Blockchain used very advanced cryptography.
            UnchangableTransaction-it cannot removed (or) modified.
            Collbarations-Each transactions send into directly without anyother 3rd parity.

Blockchain is used for,
	   Banking,
	   Finance,
	   Goverment,
	   Helthcare,
	   Insurance,
	   Media&Entertainment.

History:
	The blockchain is first discribed in 1991 by Stuart Flaber and W.Scott Stornatta.
	They develope the system using the concept of cryptographically secuerd chain of blocks to store data.
	In 1992-Merkle Tree- it contains hash concepts and data blocks.
	in 2008-Bitcoin by Satoshi Nakamoto.

Blockchain Version:
	1.0->Currency->Internet of money.
	2.0->Smartcontracts->Automatically Excuted
	3.0->Decentralized Apllication->decentralized and communication

Blockchain Cryptocurrency:
	Bitcoin,
	Litecoin,
                  Dash,	
	Z-Cash,
	Monero.
Bitcoin:
	Bitcoin means cryptocurrency,this used and protocol of cryptography for genaration units of currency.
	Its commenly called decentralized digital currency.
	Bitcoin works in peer-to-peer communication.
	Bitcoin Minors:
		Is addind aprocess of transaction records to bitcoin public ledger of past transction.this is called blockchain.
		It secure and verify the transaction to the rest of network.
	Blockchain Hash Function:
		2-properties:	
			i)hash
			ii)one -way-function
		this is used secure hash algorithm(SHA-256)

Basic Components of Bitcoin:
	4 basic components:
			Software->Everything is based on software.The bitcoin software is always operated in 24*7.
			Cryptography-> Bitcoin uses cryptography to regulate the transfer of bitcoin between parties, as well as the creation of new units of bitcoin.Without cryptography, Bitcoin would simply not be possible.
			Hardware->This hardware is specially designed for finding Nonce to validate block and hash. It requires a lot of CPU power to complete a simple task on the bitcoin blockchain.
			Miners-This is the game theory.

*Ethereum:
         	Ethereum is the global,
	Opensource for decentralized application,
	Its control digital value,
	And is accessible in anywhere inthe world.
	"Ethereum is launched by 2015 and its a world wide programable blockchain".
	Ethereum has a native cryptocurency its called ETH(ether).
	ETH is a digital money.
	It has same featuers like bitcoin .
	Its  purely  digital and send it to anyone to anywhere in the world.
	Ethereum is a programable and developer can use build in new kind of applications.

*Ethereum componemnts:
	Smart Contract->Transactions purpose-> smart contract is a computer protocol.
				               ->allow the performence of crediable transactions without 3rd parity.
				               ->people  from all of the world can interact and exchange value without a centralized authority thorugh this smart contract.		
	Ether->this the digital currency
	
*Advantages:
	Immutable-> That mean cannot change
		 ->This make it impossible to hack.
	Decentralized->That mean no need intermediary to perform the action.
		       ->Smart contract are self-Excuted.
	Fast Transaction->The verification and automation of blockchain transactions ensure the process is faster.
	Secure->All transations are cryptographically secured.
	
*Gensis Block:
	This is the First Block of any blockchin -based protocol.
	This block is refferd to block zero.
	This contain i) transaction details,
		     ii)block size,
		     iii)time-stamp,
		     iv)nonce
		     v)sender and recever details,
		    vi)hash value.	

*Minors:
	Mining the process of transation between the sender and recever.
	It check valid or not in  the transaction between the sender and recever .
 	And the minnors take some charge(money) of transaction .
*Gas Value:
	The minnor take some value that is called Gas value.
	It basically internal pricing for running a transaction or contract.
	
*Gas Limit:
	Gas limit is refer to maximum amount to spend to particular transactions.
	A higher gas limits mean that more computational work must be done to execute the smart contract. 

*Solitity:
	Solitity  is an object oriented programming language for writting smart contracts.
	It is used implements of  smart contract in various blockchain platforms.
                 This is only used for block chain devlopment.
	This is is statically typed programming language.
	The result is available in every node.
	
*Remix Online:
	Remix is the one of the IDE.
	Its used for compile and deploy the smart contract.
*Boot Node:
	Bootnode  is the  lightweight application  used for node discovery protocol.
	Decentralized concepts, to get permission to all block for modify some details.
	
*Pos:
	POS stands for Proof Of Stake.
	Its one of the algorithm(The order of the instructions is important,).
	Validation block transation according to how many coin the person holds.

*Pow:
	POW stands for  Proof Of Work.
	This is the one of the protocol(set of rules).
	This main goal is dettering cyber attacks such as DDOS.

*Web3j:
	Web3j is a etherum  packages.
	It Is a java API which can be used to intract with node.
*Mist:
	Mist is a browser to browse aAPPS hosted  in cloud.
*Geth:
	This is one command line tool which is interact with the blockchain.
*Testnet:
	This is used for testing purpose in smarcontracts.

*Mainnet:
	 Mainnet is the term used to describe when a blockchain protocol is fully developed and deployed.
                   That meaning that cryptocurrency transactions are being broadcasted, verified, and recorded on a distributed ledger technology .
	 This is global communication with schema.
	 HTTP service is local communication with shema.
*Blockchain Types:
	Public blockchains - >Bitcoin and Ethereum
                 Private blockchains ->Hyperledger and R3 Corda
	Hybrid blockchains -> Dragonchain
	

	

	
            